The first rock figures date back to more than 70 thousand years before Christ.

From the Dead Sea Scrolls to the latest book available on Amazon, humanity has always needed to store its knowledge in some way. This brings us to the concept of knowledge - or, more specifically, information.

The fundamental concept that gives rise to information is known as data. But how to define it?


The data can be considered the value of a certain measure without contextualization and, therefore, without value to be applied or treated. The moment data is contextualized, that is, it is attributed to a context or situation, it becomes information, consequently obtaining value.

Look at the graph of a company on the Stock Exchange: On the abscissa, it shows the time axis; in the order, the value of the share on the Stock Exchange.
Suppose it registered growth during the Covid-19 pandemic. The value of this company's shares practically doubled on the Stock Exchange. Let's analyze:

Situation 1
Imagine that you only know the data pairs, ($85, May 2019) and ($200, May 2020), out of context.

Situation 2
Imagine that the two values are recorded in May 2019 and 2020, and that you are informed about this in mid-December 2019.

Normally, such a situation does not occur. After all, it is very difficult for there to be such a large appreciation in a short space of time. See what happens in each situation:

In situation 1, the values US$85 and US$200 are given – and not contextualized. Therefore, it is not possible to obtain financial gains or develop a monetary perception regarding them. Even if the greatest investment expert on the Stock Exchange was aware of both, he could not do anything to profit from such data.

In situation 2, these values are contextualized data; therefore, knowing them would provide information that could lead to monetary gains.
It can be defined as contextualized data in which there is a perception of value. It is necessary to pay attention to its preservation.
As it is contextualized data, the information has the following life cycle:

Creation
Transport
Handling
Disposal
After the first stage (creation), the data can be transported or handled. The order of the cycle represents transport before handling as this procedure is the most common in these cases, however it is perfectly possible for it to be handled previously. In the final step, the information is discarded.

During all these steps, information must be protected. Leakage at any stage can cause problems in several aspects. Let's analyze the following hypotheses:


Inadequate transport of data by a carrier that does not carry out all necessary security procedures.


Laptop taken for maintenance without the data on its hard drive being protected. It is not uncommon for there to be cases of theft from units that had sensitive company information.


Data analyst has a laptop and external hard drive stolen from his home with unencrypted information from 26.5 million US military veterans. He reported that he routinely took the data to his home. In this case, the problem occurred in the handling of information.


New York forensic company, Kessler International carried out the following study: for six months, it acquired used hard drives on the eBay portal. About 40% of them contained information about their users.


Facebook, one of the newest companies in the technology market and with very high added value, being used by millions of people around the world, had a hard drive stolen from a vehicle. It contained information on approximately 29,000 US employees.

What conclusion can we draw from the cases presented? Information, which is contextualized data, needs protection throughout its entire life cycle. From the examples mentioned, we can understand the need to always establish adequate protection for it at any stage of its life cycle.

In the case of transporting magnetic media containing confidential information from users of a certain company, for example, a good protection is the use of encryption, which can be defined as the scrambling of information through a sequence of data that uses a key and a algorithm. This key is used to scramble (encrypt) and unscramble (decrypt) information.

When the same key is used in both stages, encryption is said to be symmetric; when different keys are used, it is asymmetric. Let's look at the examples in the images below:
How do you handle your pen drive? Nowadays, because we are in the information age, it is common to always carry one of these devices in our pocket, backpack or wallet. After all, how do you take care of your information?

Surely, your flash drive contains some files that you should still be working on. It can be used for several people and different types of work, such as:

If you are a programmer, you may be tinkering with some part of a system you are developing.

If you work in management, you may be updating a spreadsheet with your company's financial data.

A simple - but efficient - practice in these cases is to simply compress your files using a password, see:


More insecure
Files on pen drive without password.

close

Less insecure
Compressed file containing all files with password.

Practically all tools (even free ones) have this functionality. Each has a methodology for adding the password to the compression process. A good example of this is the 7-zip tool.

These tools use the best encryption algorithms on the market. In addition to saving pen drive space, this simple practice also creates a layer of protection for the information contained on the device.

We must note that protection and ease go in opposite directions. Therefore, the process of compressing with a password generates an increase in time spent handling information, as it always requires the task of decompressing and compressing to process the information.


Protection and ease going in opposite directions.

Therefore, its disposal must be carried out in a standardized manner, as the purpose is to prevent the recovery of your information. Example: pen drives, hard drives and other used media need to be disposed of using appropriate shredders. See two types of shredders:


Paper shredder

Hard disk shredder
The three main aspects of information require special care:

account_balance
Confidentiality
Ability to access information only for those with authorization.

account_balance
Integrity
Possibility of changing information by authorized people or systems.

account_balance
Availability
The right for information to be accessed, at any time, by people or systems authorized to do so.

Cited by several authors as pillars, these three aspects correspond to the priority of what must be protected in relation to information. All the examples cited correspond to the confidentiality of information at three different moments in its life cycle.

Therefore, information security can be defined as the activities, procedures and methodologies that aim to protect information, mainly with regard to confidentiality, integrity and availability (CID).

The following aspects, however, are also considered important:

Authenticity
Ensures that the information was generated by a person or system authorized for this purpose.


Legality
Aligns information and/or processes with standards, ordinances, laws and any other normative documents, each in its respective sphere of attribution and scope.


Non-repudiation
It relates to the fact that the issuer denies the authorship of disclosed information. It is also known as irreversibility.

Together, they all make up the main aspects used by controls - or the tools that provide information security - to protect information. In addition to the 3 main aspects already mentioned, we also have:

(2019 - Instituto UniFil - Prefeitura de Cambé/PR - psychologist) Information security is related to the protection of a set of data in order to preserve the values they have for an individual or an organization. The concept applies to all aspects of information and data protection. The concept of IT security or computer security is closely related to it, including not only the security of data/information, but also that of the systems themselves. Select the alternative that does not represent one of the principles of information security.
The main pillars of information security are confidentiality, integrity and availability. There are complementary ones, such as authenticity, legality and non-repudiation.
(2019 - IDECAN - IF-AM - documental librarian) Information security is based on three pillars: confidentiality, integrity and availability. Based on this information, analyze the following statements.

I. Ensure access by a duly authorized person or device to all hardware, software and data whenever necessary.

II. Information must be stored as it was created, so that it is not corrupted or damaged.

III. The information cannot be seen or used without the appropriate access authorizations by people or devices.

Select the alternative that presents the correct order of association with the three pillars of information security.
Availability determines that access is guaranteed. The fact that information is stored as it was created is automatically linked to integrity. Information that can only be seen by authorized people is confidential.
(2020 - IDIB - Prefeitura de Colinas do Tocantins/TO - civil engineer) When it comes to information security, literature in the area of information technology lists three basic priorities. These three priorities are also called the pillars of information security. Select the alternative that correctly indicates the name of the basic priority related to the use of resources that aim to restrict access to information.


The main pillars of information security are confidentiality, integrity and availability. There are complementary ones, such as authenticity, legality and non-repudiation.


The internet was created in the late 1990s in the CERN laboratories by British physicist Tim Berns-Lee. Since that time, several creations have shaped subsequent generations. Currently, images known as memes stand out on the internet. Some of them have an educational character, teaching, in a playful way, some practices that should not be followed. One of them is the handling of passwords.

In fact, the idea is to teach the user how to handle their password correctly, not leaving it, for example, under the keyboard. In the talking rug meme, the objective is to teach the user how to use it correctly. Select the item that integrates this teaching.
Confidentiality is related to maintaining information that can be observed, read or accessed only by those who have the right to. In other words, it's similar to leaving an email account open so that anyone can read it without needing the password (key under the rug, password under the keyboard).

A few years after his retirement, Bill decides to study for a security certification. He and his next-door neighbor, Steve, who would also like to obtain the long-awaited certification, decide to create mnemonics to memorize the subjects.

To decorate the pillars of information security, they create the following mnemonic: “I grew up watching television. I have always found the CID to be very confident when reporting reports.” Bill and Steve created several mnemonics. The next day, there was the certification test. His first question was about the pillars. The mnemonic idea worked, but they forgot what each letter represented.

You decide to explain to them the meaning of each one. Select the alternative that presents the correct terms.
All professions have their characteristics. We, who are in ICT, will need, at one time or another, to interact with these professions and ensure that these characteristics are met.

One of the oldest professions in the world is that of a doctor. Those who have already taken the Hippocratic Oath and know how arduous this profession is are aware that one of its foundations is confidentiality between doctor and patient.

This secrecy appears transcribed in CFM 1605/2000 in addition to the Code of Criminal Procedure (1941, art. 207), which provides the following: “People who, due to their function, ministry, trade or profession, must keep secret, unless, when released by the interested party, they wish to give their testimony”. This further reinforces the need to protect this data not only in terms of its confidentiality, but also in relation to its integrity.

Regarding confidentiality, how should database administrators manage them, since they can handle any data stored in a DBMS?

The standard answer to this increasingly common question is the use of encryption in the database without the key (symmetric, public or private) being in hard code, nor stored in the DB or computer file.
When downloading a software ISO, we normally use hash functions. Select the alternative that presents the pillar of information security that corresponds to the use of these functions.







Hash functions create a set of alphanumeric values that represent information. By changing one bit of information, normally the entire set of values is changed. This way, you ensure that there will be no changes to the information.


It is the duty of every citizen to prepare income tax annually. With the advent of the internet, our declaration can now be sent directly to government officials. At the beginning of this methodology, it was common for there to be news reports on the news about servers failing to cope and shutting down on their own. Select the alternative that presents the pillar of information security that perfectly describes this situation.
When the servers were shut down, they stopped working; As a result, they became unavailable.
